your witness to a great becoming. It's
better offline and I'm Ed Zetron.
Today we're joined by computer science
professor and tech writer Cal Newport
for hate season. Cal, thank you for
joining me.
>> Uh, always happy to do some hating, I
suppose.
Well, you had an excellent YouTube that
I'll be linking in the show notes about
the mistakes in AI reporting. Though I
would my hater in me says I don't think
these are mistakes, but you really you
touched one of the best videos I've seen
on AI report or AI in general was what
you did where it was basically this
thing of like the digital ick that these
stories are meant to make you feel
uncomfortable and of course this faux
astonishment thing. You know what? Just
run the tape. Tell me a little bit about
what the bits that you found because I
watched it going, "Yeah, yeah, yeah."
Like an angry person.
>> Yeah. I had to I could imagine you when
I was recording that video. I was like,
I bet Ed is
>> wilding out wilding out. I was having a
great time.
>> Exactly. Well, I mean, let me just give
the context, right? So, I'm in an
interesting situation for observing this
because, you know, I am a computer
scientist. So, I'm not afraid of the
technologies. I'm I'm happy to talk
about transformers and feed forward
networks and diffusion models and like
that's not that scary to me. But I also
write about technology. My main
journalistic home is the New Yorker
where I write a lot about, you know, I
do AI journalism there. So I'm I'm up on
that as well.
>> And so I'm often noticing things in
journalism when I see AI coverage that
is faulty.
>> It really catches my attention because I
have a foot in both of these worlds. Um,
so there's a lot of good AI reporting
out there. There's also a lot of trash.
And I really wanted to help people
figure out how do you sort it? Like how
do you figure out if you're reading
something, should I pull the rip cord on
this article? Like this is not helping
me. Like how do you know if it's good or
not? So I was like, okay, here's what
I'll do is I'll come up with the three
most common traps I see in AI reporting
that makes me want to, you know, throw
my iPad at the wall. And I came up with
three and I'll just give you the three
names. I made up all these names. I
don't I don't think they're great. My
producer thinks he loves them. But here
we go. Uh Vibe Reporting. That's number
one. So that is where you you will omit
certain facts and put loosely related uh
quotes next to each other in a way that
creates a general vibe that you want to
be true, but it's not quite true. So you
don't actually make a concrete claim
that's not true, but you imply that
claim by what you omit or what you put
in your story or what quotes you put
next to it. So, you'll put a quote, for
example, about layoffs at uh the gaming
division at Microsoft next to an
unrelated quote about concerns about AI
and its impact on jobs. Now, you have
the vibe, oh man, all these people just
got laid off because of AI. AI is taking
jobs. Where in reality, the layoffs had
nothing to do with AI, but you put these
things next to each other, you give that
sense. Then I had the
>> mining digital ick. So to me that's any
AI story where you take an example from
the edges of AI like something that
wireheads in San Francisco are up to and
you just tell a story that's unsettling
without talking about uh any of the
technical details like well what's
different here? Was there a technical
innovation we need to know about and not
discussing any concrete implications. Oh
this means this is going to change in
the future or it's going to have an
impact on this sector. You're just
telling a story to unsettle and I think
a lot of the coverage of molt book and
open claw fell into that. And then
finally is fauxston astonishment which
is more of a YouTube phenomenon than a
print journalism phenomenon but that's
where every single thing that happens in
AI is insane amazing terrifying
everything is going to change and so you
constantly create this atmosphere of
something seismic just happened so that
the consumer of the information ends up
in a bit of a panic like I can't put my
finger on exactly what's terrible but
like everything terrible is happening.
Those three traps to me should be
automatic rip cords from what you're
reading or watching.
>> I the only disagreement I'll have is
that you would say that this isn't the
majority of AI journalism because I
actually argue it would be especially
that kind of the the beginning one. The
vibe reporting is very common because
the big one right now I'm seeing is this
AI software AI is replacing software
thing. If you are a reporter and Cal is
not making this statement I am. If you
were a reporter and you bring up
anthropic cowork
around anything, you are you are wrong.
I was about to call you a name, but I'm
being nice today for some reason. All
right, you're a [__] Because you are
a [__] If you look at Claude Co,
which is a thing for [__] around on
your desktop, and you say this is going
to compete with Salesforce, you just
don't know what you're talking about.
You are wrong. But then one abstraction
higher is this idea that claude code is
going to destroy SAS software as a
service. And the idea being that
software as a service is this thing that
people are just going to stop building
their own CRM. They're going to stop
building their own uh per seat software
things but they're going to build it
internally. This just I don't know if
you've seen this C it just reflects a
complete lack of understanding of how
software works.
>> Yeah. because you don't you don't pay
Microsoft for Microsoft 365 teams
because you can't build your own word or
what have you. I don't think you could,
but nevertheless, it's also cuz they
maintain it cuz they make sure it
doesn't break or if it breaks, they fix
the bits. So, they make sure that it
stays up all the time. They make sure
it's accessible, it has secure login.
Like,
>> well, look, there's a few things going
on here. Uh, one of these things I
reported on last month, I I did a big
New Yorker piece on agents, right? So
this this is relevant to cloud code and
how people are thinking about the
current future. And there was this
basically here's what seems to have
happened.
>> Claude code and these other command line
interface agents uh can do really cool
things. And I'm using the word cool here
in a very carefully. That's fine.
>> Yeah. Like cool in a sense.
>> I would like you to be like completely
like give people the actual explanation
here.
>> Yeah. So cool meaning like Oculus,
right? You put on the the Oculus visors
for the first time. Everyone had the
same reaction. This is really cool. Now,
that's separate from that's a trillion
dollar business. Like, let's put it
aside. But it was this is really cool.
I'm seeing 3D in in a world where it
tracks my head. Uh cloud code and other
command line interface coding tools
became like that for programmers. It was
like really fun to watch it doing
multi-step execution of the construction
of demos or this or that. And the reason
why it could do those cool demos, it was
sort of well suited for that world
because that's a world that exists only
in text. Uh so cloud code works on a
command line interface. It's all text
based
>> and it works with a file system. You can
write files, edit files, send files to
compilers. It's all exist in a small
number of commands on a command line
interface. It's all in a world of text
because that's where computer programs
are built. That's a perfect case for
LLMs which love dealing with text and
they love dealing with structured text
like
>> computer code. There was an
extrapolation that then happened and
really that this caught on January of 25
which is where you first began to get
this uh sentiment of oh it's doing such
cool things over in the world of command
line interfaces and code. Certainly
these agents can now soon do similar
cool things and like all all different
things we do on a computer. That is what
laid this foundation of people were so
impressed. Programmers were so impressed
by the coolness of what was happening
with cloud code and the other command
line interface tools that they they
extrapolated that vibe over to other
computer usages. Uh the point of that
article I reported was oh it turns out
like everything else we do on computer
is much harder. It's not six text
commands on a command line interface
creating structure code that you can
compile and test to see if it compiled
or not. It's much messier. the
interfaces are visual. Um, we don't
realize what complexity goes into the
things we click and select doing
something as simple as even trying to
just book like a hotel uh in a new city
or something like this. And that if you
use a language model is the underlying
logic and decision engine of making
actual actions in the real world. Well,
the language models make things up and
get things wrong or a little bit wrong
20% of the time.
>> And a little bit wrong in computer
science means breaking everything.
>> Well, it means a lot. like it's okay in
code because they say, "Oh, that that
didn't compile. Let's try again." But
when you're booking a hotel room, as I
sort of detailed in that article, it
means like you ended up in the wrong
city 2 years from now. Uh and the room
cost $6,000, right? And so it just
didn't work. So 2025 was supposed to be
the year of the agents and it just
didn't work. And they don't really know
how to fix it,
>> but we're still vibe reporting.
>> Yeah. But cloud code is like really
exciting and and so why can't we do that
with everything else in the computer?
There's actually a much harder problem
than they were letting on.
>> Well, the thing is I've seen especially
like in 2026, I've seen a lot more
Claude Code stuff and there was there's
been a very big uh consent manufacturing
operation going on right now. Wall
Street Journal, Atlantic, CNBC. Dear
Drew Bosa, this is a statement from me,
not Cal. Drios from CNBC should be
[__] ashamed of herself going on CNBC
every day just going code's going to
destroy all software. She's on Twitter
because she was able to vibe code a some
sort of Monday clone which is just like
a what is it? It's a project management
tool. It's like I made some software
that worked. This is everything now. But
that's kind of what you've been talking
about with this vibe reporting where
it's like I did a small thing. Now all
things will be done in this manner.
Whether it's possible, god know. God
know. But she she like many reporters
are able to find a lot of people who are
invested in AI who will absolutely go on
TV and say, "Yep, it's completely true.
That's going to happen 100%." It's just
so strange because it makes me feel
paranoid and kind of conspiral. When you
look at the majority of news about AI,
and it is this vibe reporting, it's
these vast extrapolations from 16,000
job um job losses at Amazon. They
mentioned AI. This plus this equals the
AI is replacing people. The It's just so
weird. It makes me feel like
uncomfortable with the world.
>> Yeah. Well, can we can we sit for a
moment on that Amazon example because I
think it's a great one. It frustrates
me. That one frustrates me. Go ahead.
>> All right. So, Amazon lays off 16,000
people. All right.
>> It's covered in two different ways.
>> So, the Vibe reporting way it's covered.
I in my newsletter on my podcast, I
looked at an example from Quartz and it
was covered as clearly intended to imply
Amazon laid off 16,000 people because of
AI. They're being replaced by AI. They
they put the subhead of the article was
the CEO of Amazon talking about how AI
is going to increasingly disrupt the job
force. And then in the the article
itself, no alternative explanations are
given for these layoffs. They kind of
just give the details of like here's how
many people are laid off and here's
where they figured it out. And then they
put a couple quotes in there about AI
being very disruptive and being able to
automate jobs. It turns out those
layoffs had nothing to do with AI. And
you could find other reporting that
focused because it was it was reporting
that was for the financial market. So it
was trying to focus on what the hell is
actually happening.
>> And the the deeper reporting was like
yeah they laid off a bunch of managers
because like a lot of tech companies
they overhired during the pandemic
because cloud computing became much in
demand during the pandemic. So, a lot of
tech companies overhire during the
pandemic and they're all shedding those
jobs again. And Amazon's pretty ruthless
about this, right? Like they're always
looking for excuses to fire people and
they said, "We have too much
bureaucratic bloat. There's too many
managers. We're going to fire a bunch of
these managers we hired so that we can
be more lean." Again, that has nothing
to do with AI. In fact, this is the the
second or third round of these firings
that they planned to do. The first round
occurring before chat GPT was even
released. Like, this has nothing to do
>> with jobs being replaced by AI. But then
you can vibe report it because like well
technically speaking Amazon also is
investing money in AI products. So
technically speaking money saved by
firing these managers could be respent
on AI. So you can say with a like a semi
straight face
>> they fired people because of AI but
clearly you know the impression that
you're giving to the reader is that they
were replaced by AI
>> and it had nothing to do with it. And I
heard by the way so I I wrote about that
put in that video. I've heard on
background from multiple Amazon
executives since they were like, "We
were completely baffled by this coverage
that was implying that people were being
fired here to do with AI." This is just
what we do at Amazon. We're ruthless.
Like, if you're not earning your keep,
we fire you. They were completely
baffled by that coverage and like,
"Thanks for pointing it out." Like, what
do we got here?
>> I got to be honest, Cal, if I got an
email like that from an Amazon
executive, I tell them to go [__]
themselves. And I mean this nicely
because Andy Jasse last year June 17th
2025 put a whole thing about today in
virtually every corner of the company
we're using generative AI to make
customers lives better. I believe Amazon
benefits from that obfiscation and I
think they deliberately fuel it. Now
there may be executives who disagree
with that.
>> Well these were lower level managers
right? So not exact I shouldn't say
executives people who work there that
were like oh yeah no no no they're not
firing people because like AI they're
just being brutal.
>> Right. Right. They're the people who
tell the truth.
>> Yeah. Exactly. Exactly.
>> But no, you are right. I think for the
there was been a lot of vibe reporting
basically the I I've been covering this
for the last two years. The entire
sequence of uh job reductions that were
post-pandemic correction. So the entire
tech industry overhired during the
pandemic, the entire tech industry cut
jobs uh in the last few years because
they hired too many people and now they
have to correct back to where they were
pre- pandemic. Consistently across the
board, these cuts are reported as due to
AI.
>> Consistently. You see exactly that
story. We see it in I'm a computer
scientist. We see this in uh coverage of
computer science majors as well. Same
idea. Computer science majors
historically
>> directly tied to the tech industry. If
they're cutting in a down cycle, majors
go down.
>> If they're hiring, I mean, it's just
econ I mean, it's not surprising. When
the tech industry is booming, we get a
lot more majors because they're good
jobs, right? And so computer science
majors went down in the last year or two
as the tech companies started cutting.
that was reported in the Atlantic as
kids are not majoring in AI because AI
makes the m the surprise
>> majoring in compsai you mean?
>> Yeah. Compite. Yeah. Because AI is going
to do all these jobs like because
>> we've had these cycles every 5 years we
have this cycle there. This is nothing
you
>> No. No. I I'm And the Atlantic has just
done a piss poor job with this stuff.
I'm I'm hating and I'm hating on them
because they had an awful Claude code
thing. They just, you know, I'm going to
bring it up and read the title. I'm not
going to say the reporter's name because
I think that that's that's mean. But
let's look at this. Move over Chad GPT.
You're about to hear a lot more about
Claude Code. And you know why you're
going to hear about that? Cuz the
[__] Atlantic is writing about it.
And it's just uh over the holidays, Alex
Lieberman had an idea. What if he could
create Spotify wrapped for his text
messages without writing a single line
of code? Lieberman, co-founder of the
media outlet Morning Brew, created
iMessage wrapped. I just want to start
here and say that guy doesn't do any
[__] work and I know people who work
there. Like I'm I just want to start by
saying if that's the best you've got and
that probably involves throwing a
giraffe and his entire zoo into a vat of
acid to make the GPUs move.
You're meant to read this and the
deliberate effect you're meant to have
is you're meant to be scared and
excited. like it is a kind of a mish
mash between the vibe reporting and the
um I guess it's the fa in fact this
might be a triple score because this is
meant to feel you make you feel with
discomfort but also make you freak out
but also be excited a rare triple score
it's just stories like these piss me off
because I'm fine with people going this
could do this it I'm I don't mind it it
happens but when it's just like m feed
me the slop right into my mouth and
[__] make me feel make me feel all
the marketing things all at once.
First of all, I'm not impressed by the
idea of doing iMessage rap. That's not
that's not a thing a human being with
act with like friends and hobbies does.
>> I've been rew I've been watching the
first season of True Detective. I've got
many more shows I could watch. Never
once would I think, what if I could get
a wrapped of all my messages? What a
[__] psychotic thing to do. But when
you read this, it's like your you spent
your holidays with your family. Wrote
one tech policy expert. That's nice. I
spent my holidays with Claude code.
>> Well, it's fun.
>> I mean, I think it's it's fun to create
uh these sort of demo apps if you're
like engineering minded. So, in that
sense, the like most the most cynical
analysis here is that
>> cloud code is like model trains for
engineering-minded people. It's a fun
hobby. Yeah, I can put look at this like
I made a thing that can uh like I was
talking to a friend of mine yesterday
computer scientist and you're like oh I
built a thing where I can you know
whatever email um an appointment to a
thing that go gets parsed by an LLM and
then it goes to my calendar that's just
fun for him in the same way that someone
else might be like hey I built a cabinet
and like it's really nice like look I
got the wood to go together and like I'm
proud I could just bond a cabinet or
whatever
>> except you build except you built
something with your your hands
cabinet.
It feels like
it's more like it's toy software that
has some functionality because the big
thing I'm waiting for with the vibe
coding stuff is an actual product. You
know what I mean?
>> Well, you know that doesn't go well. I
mean, look, this is the story of this is
the story of Maltbook, right? Because
>> Oh, yeah. Tell me more about Malt Book.
We we were just talking about this.
>> Oh my gosh. A whole can of worms to open
there. I'm just going to open like the
top of the nearest can, which is before
even getting to what Maltbook is and is
not. Um, you know, it was in the news
all the time. It was vibe coded and um
immediately was just full of
>> terrible security holes because it was
vibe coded. And it turned out that you
could get the the API key. So the
>> the key you use when you access the paid
service to get use an LLM, you have an
API key so they know who to charge. You
could just steal everyone's API key who
was using it because the guy just
vibecoded it. Uh, and so no, no one was
actually there looking at the code. But
what but what I think is going on. Okay,
so here's what I would like to see. I
would like to see more reporting that
would be how are people using X? Like to
me that's very interesting, right? How
are people using X? Yeah. And the
problem is those answers right now, and
this is confounding I think to people
who are very excited by the potential
and coolness of these things in
isolation. The answer to how are people
using X is often not nearly as exciting
as you would guess. And I think the
reality with I mean I don't quite have
my arms around cloud code. I do know
there's a lot of people who are building
kind of like internal tools or personal
tools with it which I think is cool.
Most people aren't interested in that
but for some people they are. And you
know I think it's fun. Computer
programming is fun right? So like the
ability to make a program work is and
some of those tools are useful but this
is that's not a major industry on its
own. You know I'm designing a tool for
my small company that makes it easier
for us to do whatever. Um that's cool
but that's not like a trillion dollar
industry. I can't get my arms around yet
exactly how professional computer
programmers are using it. They're all
talking about it. Really?
>> Yeah. But I can't get I can't get my
arms around it.
>> Yeah. What do you What's What's your
sense of
>> I heard I'm going to be honest. I was
going to ask you I was literally going
to ask have you heard people using it?
Because if you go on X the everything
app, if you you put on full hazmat suit,
uh you you go on X and you go and look
and the way that people talk about this
is like they have connected into the
matrix that they are now a thousandx
engineer. But when you go and look at
what they do, no one actually says.
There's always these these kind of vibe
story, the vibe tales, the mythology
where it's like, I had a problem vaguely
that would have taken me x number of
hours, but when I used claude code, it
solved it immediately and caught two
bugs that I didn't know about. It's very
Marine Todd style. Then everybody
clapped.
>> Yeah. And it's re you're a computer
science teacher and you you don't know
either which makes me think it's not as
big a deal as people are saying. My
other bit of evidence is that in at the
end of last year anthropics claude code
revenue was 1.1 billion annualized. So
about
>> 90 to 100 million a month. For a
revolution
that feels low somehow.
Yeah, I mean what I know as a computer
scientist, you can't write
performanceoriented code. You can't
write safe code. Um you you can't write
code that has to sort of juggle a sort
of complex set of scenarios. I mean you
just need good programmer's eyes on it
building this code.
>> Why is that? Is there a way of
explaining to a non-coder why that is?
>> Code is it's there's like a poetic
element to it. You know, it's writing
good computer code is difficult. Um,
you're often you're dealing with, you
know, what is my problem here and I want
an elegant way of sort of satisfying
this problem. You're often drawing from
uh pretty nuanced algorithms and data
structures to try to figure out how am I
going to organize information and
efficiently access it. um when
performance comes into play, there's a
lot of really subtle decisions to make
about, you know, how am I going to store
or use things in such a way that we
don't get bogged down when we're trying
to execute things. Um it just becomes I
I don't code as much anymore because I'm
a theoretician, but I did my whole life
since I was, you know, seven. And it's a
there's an it's an art form, right? When
you're using cloud code, you're not
really supposed to look at the code. And
so I think that takes a lot of uses
probably off the table. And so the the
use case is you're supposed to have
these different instances of cloud code
running and this one's going to write
code and then this one's going to write
test for that code and then the cloud
code is going to run the test and then
try to fix the code if it doesn't
matches the test. Um but your eyes
aren't on the code at all and I there's
I mean obviously for a lot of
programming that's an issue but then the
other thing I've heard about the
computer programming industry is it's
very stratified. There's a smaller
number of like really good serious
programmers that produce like 90% of the
really important valuable code on which
everything runs. I don't think they
would touch cloud code with a 10-ft
pole. Like they're good at what they do.
And then you have these like huge strata
of people
>> writing like JavaScript and sort of
hacking together Python and you know
it's like not very good code and then
it's I I guess you could replace some of
that.
>> It's functional enough.
>> It's functional enough but I yeah I
can't get my arms around it yet. But I
do get, you know, I have a lot of
sources. So I I hear from, you know, I
do hear from people that are talking
about how cool cloud code is. I do think
it's cool. I hear from a lot of
professional programmers that are like,
"Yeah, we don't you we can't use this.
>> We're trying to write serious programs.
Like we have to sell this software. Like
we
>> this is this not solving a problem we
have or you know, we we so you know, I
don't know. But the problem is that's
that's what the reporting should be.
Hey, here we are at this company looking
over the shoulder of people. What are
they doing? let's talk to the
engineering teams on background of this
tech company exactly what role is going
on here and I think what a lot of
reporting has become on AI is your hype
laundering so you look at
>> the uh discussion about the technology
happening from more engineering-minded
people you convince yourself as a
reporter I can't understand the
engineering but I will trust the people
who do and then you launder what you're
sensing from that hype into your
articles
>> not realizing that like nerds like me we
get hyped up about stuff and we get
super excited about stuff and we go
right? Like you can't just launder our
hype into this is what's happening. And
so it's like reporting on a war
>> where you have no one embedded. There's
no one actually on the ground where the
battles are happening. Um you're just
responding to the press conferences that
the generals are holding, you know, back
in the Pentagon. Like it's not a way to
report on what's actually going on. And
I think the other thing as well is there
is a if you don't do this hype
laundering I think I'm I don't know how
these if you're a reporter listening to
this and you have a thought about this
send it to me anonymously eitron76
on signal. Um, but my thought is as well
is there's probably a problem with
rationalization as well. Because if you
look at this and you say, "Okay, well,
it's kind of cool. It's fun in whatever
indeterminate way. It doesn't seem like
serious software, like actual real deal
software is being made with it, but then
the CEO of Google says 30% of code is
written in AI, which is bullshit." And
I've heard from so many software
engineers,
well, it couldn't be that everyone's
just wrong, right? It couldn't be a case
of that everyone is making the most
egregious capital expenditure [__] up of
all time. This would be historic. I
believe worse than railways digital
beanie babies but done at the scale of
laser tag arenas. Now it can't possibly
be that because everyone else is saying
this is exciting and good. And at that
point they choose instead of being
like worried instead of being a bit
anxious about this they say well Amazon
Web Services spent a lot of money so
this spends a lot of money money too so
this is actually good it's actually good
and indeed these people seem emphatic
and excited and I as a non-coder can
build a fudged CRM that probably would
not withstand even the laziest hacker. I
can do this and thus it will extrapolate
further from there. And what sucks is
what the people that I believe actually
will be hurt by this are retail
investors. I think regular people buying
stocks in these companies or selling
software stocks because they believe
that claw code will replace them. And
ultimately I think it's just going to be
a bloodbath for people's 401ks that
could have been avoided. Except it would
require reporters to do something
uncomfortable. And I don't think they
want to do that. ever.
>> I I I think there's two things going on.
This is what I've decided with with
reporting. First of all, it's asymmetric
risk. So, a lot of reporters are like,
"Look, there's not a major risk if I'm
excited about this and it doesn't pan
out because we could be like, yeah,
surprisingly this didn't pan out and it
was some factors we couldn't see." But
they do feel like there's a huge amount
of risk of saying this is not a big deal
and then it is.
>> And so, it's it's definitely an
asymmetric risk. We saw a lot of this
during like COVID as well,
>> right? is like you wanted it was less
there would be less harm if you were too
alarmist about something but there could
be a lot of harm they felt like
reputationally if you're like this is
not a big deal and it was and so there's
definitely an asymmetric risk profile
there's also like a meaning defining
profile um it's just really exciting to
think everything is going to be
disrupted and change unrecognizably it
sort of gives
>> a focus and meaning to like an otherwise
somewhat chaotic and disrupted world
that we're in right now. And so there's
there's that aspect too is that people
want to believe there is something
massive about to happen because in some
sense it wipes away all the like bad
stuff that's happening. Who cares? None
of this is relevant because this much
bigger thing is coming. So I think that
get wrapped gets wrapped into it as
well. I think the economic reporters are
more on this because like their whole
job is to try to
>> I mean they're not on it. I think after
your work they're on it more but like
>> I don't know if I agree. I I am reading
big s I there's a an article in
Bloomberg I'm trying to shove through
archive.
Because they they were so mean and
unfair to my friend Steve Burke at
Gamers Nexus that I won't pay him. But
it's more [__] about like the software
narrative. The fact that software is
being disrupted by Claude Code. you get
the same palid reporting from Bloomberg
and even the Financial Times about
anthropic and the FD is generally pretty
good where they're like, "Yeah, they're
just going to make $30 billion next
year." It's just fanciful. It's there's
the skepticism, the cynicism doesn't
exist. And I get I agree on that.
>> Well, there was the bubble reporting
though last fall. There was a period
where everyone did the bubble reporting
after GPT5. You had a two-month period
where every major publication did bubble
reportings. Um, but you're Yeah, I guess
that did kind of die off.
>> It died off because the they they hear
one nice thing from Jensen Hong and
they're like, "Well,
I'm sold."
>> Like that jacket that jacket's looking
pretty sharp. I mean, someone who wears
that jacket, how could they be wrong?
>> Would a man that has a shiny jacket like
the Gleinger of K wears at concerts, uh,
would he lie? And it's just what really
bothers me as far as the economic
reporting though is Oracle
cuz it's like Oracle needs to be paid
$300 billion over 5 years by OpenAI, a
company that
>> if we're to believe reporting, which I
do not. Uh they made 13 billion last
year in revenue and lost sorry they made
13 billion and lost they claim nine. I
think it's probably higher. How are they
meant to pay 30 to60 billion a year in a
year? And everyone's like, well, I
they'll work it out. How's Oracle meant
to build those data centers? Those data
centers are going to cost $189 billion.
They've raised hundred billion. Okay,
how they meant to do that? And
everyone's just like, ah, they'll work
it out.
If I wish I could do this with the
[__] bank,
I need a I need a $500 million house.
I'll pay you for it in some point. All
right, it's fine. and the news would run
articles about my genius housing
purchases. It's just it's one of those
things where and you said well the the
asymmetric risk doesn't exist. It does
for some of these reporters cuz I've
been saving their their by lines for
years because I actually think that
there needs to be some sort of reckoning
with this because if you look back there
are major financial outlets that did the
same that were literally propping up Sam
Bankman Freed 2 weeks before FTX
collapsed. Yeah. who then went on
immediately to cover AI
>> [__] and now they're pedalling
[__] for anthropic and sorry I'm
kind of hating well I guess it's hater
season so I can it just frustrates me
because
regular people are being scared they're
being scared by the kind of for
astonishment which I actually love the
astonishment reporting of like oh well
open claude has proven open claw has
proven that AI is uh AGI is here or they
built their own social network so we
should be scared People are getting
scared in software is dead.
>> Yeah. Like singularity is here
>> and it's like I I assume you saw that
for the listeners by the way Open Claw
had this this [__] Claudebot whatever
it is they had their own social network
where the quote unquote LLM would post
but it turns out that most of those
posts were just made by their owners.
>> Yeah. And this
>> is made by
>> I mean this is a good case study, right?
This one bothered me because like writer
friends I know who are not technology
related were texting this to me.
>> They were worried, right? They were
texting me these articles like this
seems bad. Like this seems like
something really bad. They were really
getting the digital ick really strongly
off of these articles.
>> And I start reading these articles and I
say well there's no discussion of what
is the technical breakthrough here and
what are the concrete implications
because it turns out there was zero
technical breakthroughs. There is no new
AI technology
connected to openclaw which used to be
called mol whatever open mold open
claude or whatever openclaw is I think
where they ended up right which is an
open- source library or framework for
building AI agents powered by LLMs
there's no new AI technology involved in
this at all the the agents you build are
just accessing um off-the-shelf LLMs
that we're all using for chat bots
anyways you can aim it at whatever
commercial chatbot you want um there's
no new framework for how the agents
work. It's the same sort of React loop
that we've been trying for the last two
or three years where you just you have a
program. It's like a bit of Python code
that asks an LLM, hey, here's what I
want to do. Here's the tools you have
available. Come up with a plan. And then
it sends it back a plan. And then it the
the Python code, takes the first step
out of that text and says, okay, um
here's the tools available. What should
I do to execute this step? And then like
the the LLM will give you some steps and
then the Python code um runs those steps
and then you just go back and forth,
right? That that's like this basic react
>> which is exactly how Manis worked as
well.
>> Everything there's nothing new about
this.
>> Manis was this AI agent that Facebook
might be Meta might be acquiring. They
literally when you use it, it just
writes Python code for every step.
>> Well, so it's Yeah. So this I mean
there's nothing new here
technologically. The only thing that was
new about OpenClaw is it was um open-
source. So, it made it easy for anyone
to write bad agents. And the the other
thing that made it interesting to
wireheads in San Francisco is that the
commercial products where people are
trying to build these companies,
>> they have common sense security. Like,
well, probably if it's just a Python
program blindly doing what an LLM tells
it to do, like it probably shouldn't
have access to like your credit cards or
to your hard drive or whatever. at
OpenCloud like you can just you can give
it access to anything you want on your
computer and so you could build really
cool demos that are also like incredibly
insecure and unsafe. U and so it was fun
for hobbyist but there was no new
technology there. Nothing was new. It
was just a way for other people like
hobbyists to build their own agents that
were like less safe than the more
carefully built like what people don't
here's a a story people don't know is
like in the immediate aftermath of chat
GPT so we're in early 2023 right so chat
GPT's come out um OpenAI goes on a road
tour of major publications right and
they're to try to hey here's what's
going on you need to write about this in
early 2023 they're like the next thing
we're going to offer is something like
these agents they call them plugins
>> and you can install plugins ins that
basically can uh do actions on behalf of
your LLM query. So you could have like a
book an airline flight plugin and say
hey chatbt book me a flight. uh a
language model can't do anything but
produce text. But then the plug-in could
take the text and uh go and book you a
flight. And they're like, "This is the
future obviously." And that project
disappeared because oh, it's incredibly
unsafe and unreliable to have code that
can interact with the real world that's
following commands from a unreliable
host LLM. It's like that
>> that went away not because the
technology was hard, but because it's
not safe. So there's nothing new. and my
my whole article on agents, they tried
this all at 2025 and were failing to get
this type of agent to work for anything
outside of basically like producing
computer code. So, OpenCloud is nothing
new.
>> It was just a way for other people to
build these things. The only interesting
stories were security hole stories, but
it was reported, man, I was listening to
the All-In podcast and they were this is
the future of AI. Like this is it.
Everyone is going to have an open claw
agent as like a personal assistant and
this is like the biggest thing in Open
AI. And I don't know who it was, one of
those guys was like, "Yeah, we we
replaced our podcast uh producer, you
know, with this agent who can like email
guests on our behalf and book it on our
calendar and well, it's costing about
$1,000 a day right now to run it, but
like I don't know why we're going to
need employees in the future."
>> Hell yeah, brother.
>> Yeah.
>> So anyways, like it's a non if if you
said what's the technical implications?
None. If you say what are the concrete
implications, the best story they can
have is like maybe when people I I don't
know what it is. all the companies
already been trying to build these
things for years. So I don't know but it
was reported like
>> uh digital just something icky is
happening and that molt book was an
application that was built for these
agents to communicate on like a Reddit
style uh social network. uh they vibe
coded that framework and it was full of
security holes as we mentioned before
and there was like a small number of
users that created a huge amount of
agents and they were just kind of like
prompting and proddding their agents to
produce like let's talk about creating
our own church or killing humanity like
guys this you have Python code asking
LLMs to like write text in the style of
like the Matrix and you're posting it on
a fake social network. The real story
here should be where are they don't
these people have things to do? Don't
they have jobs? It's like what is this?
>> Yeah, it really it really my model train
I added a tunnel like so that one really
got there.
>> No, I actually will push back on that.
Model train listeners I think make up
20% of the listener ship of this
podcast. So also model trains are cool.
Just signaling to my fellow artists out
there. Uh but no, model trains are a
physical thing which you build it. You
build a little a little city. I think
they're delightful. Respect to those.
with this. It's like if they and you
know what if they were just saying,
"Hey, I've been [__] around with some
software and I did something cool." I'd
respect the [__] out of them. I'd be
like, "Yeah, enjoy yourself. It's going
away. This is all subsidized rates, but
have fun with that. Don't know why you
need a Mac Studio, but good luck." No,
they are like, "This is the future." But
I'm going to be honest, Cal. My real
question is, what does Open Claw
actually do? Because when I went and
read what it actually I read so many
posts you said it books calendars and
does this I could find no proof that
anyone successfully did that
>> and it doesn't it's it's just a series
of library calls that you can use to
build your own program in theory that
would do that. So openclaw itself is
just like a series of like interfaces
and hooks that makes it easy to write a
program that talks to other services
basic and and makes calls to LLM. So,
it's just like a wrapper in which you
can write your own code. And some people
are trying. Yeah. Like you can you can
write um you can have it talk to your
calendar. You can have it talk to your
email in theory.
>> Does it work? But does it does it work?
>> Well, it's it's just asking an LL you
can simulate I I mean I did this for my
New Yorker piece. I was like, look, I
can just simulate being an agent. Just
ask an any LLM, here's what I'm trying
to do. Give me like the steps for doing
this or whatever. And like anything else
you ask of an LLM, it will give you
answers that sound very reasonable in
general and then have like a lot of
issues in the details. Which is why
agents based on LLMs have struggled
because if you it's fine if you as a
human are talking to an LLM because you
don't realize how much filtering and
tweaking you're like that's kind of
ignore that and this is good or let me
ask you to redo it. It's really an issue
if you write a program that just says I
will do whatever I'll ask the LLM for a
plan and then just do whatever it says
because it doesn't know that doesn't
really make sense or like this sounds
generally generally reasonable but with
like issues in the details doesn't work
well when you execute that. I mean in a
in a practical sense can they said on
the All-In podcast three dumb [__]
saying exactly that's a meme reference
um not don't use that word usually those
people sitting around going blah blah
blah oh we've made it and replaced our
podcast producer with an LLM that can
make appointments and send emails in
practice is that true I severely doubt
that I just I also you're spending
$1,000 a day so you're paying $365
$5,000 a year for this, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Are you really or are you just have you
if it is it completely? It probably
isn't. And that's the thing. I don't I
get why the all-in guys do it because
they probably have investments and
they're boosters. TBPN, same [__]
deal. It really rules that the two
largest like tech things in the valley
are just state media but for Silicon
Valley.
What gets me is when you get like The
Atlantic, CNBC, Business Insider, and
places like that doing stuff like this.
And it bothers me because they don't
even need to hate on it. They could just
say, "Yeah, it could do this. It's
pretty cool, right?"
>> But I guess that that doesn't get the
clear. I
>> It's not an interesting story. That's
not The real story is not always that
interesting. It's like, look, hobbyists
are building these tools that kind of do
cool things, but make mistakes and it's
a little expensive. Like the the most
interesting story out of Open Claw is
the only thing I think is going to be
impactful out of it is because it was so
expensive, right? Like that thousand a
day. What what it's forcing people,
these hobbyists to do is to turn to like
cheaper alternatives for models. And
that I do think is significant. This
idea that there's um open source models
out there. They're significantly cheaper
than trying to use like OpenAI or cloud.
more and more people are running their
own local models because it turns out
for, you know, most specific uses you
might use an LLM. You don't need like a
super fine-tuned trillion parameter
beast of a model running in some data
center somewhere. It's like, you know
what, I'm parsing my email to try to
extract like suggested times. I'm fine
with like a 20 billion parameter model
that can easily fit in a single GPU on a
thing I have, you know, we share in our
office or something like that. So to me,
that's the most interesting story out of
OpenClaw is the bad news it could be for
the big companies. As people get more
comfortable with we don't need these
Formula One car versions of language
models for the stuff we're actually
doing, we're fine with the Ford Focus,
right? And I think that's a transition
that's going to that's a transition that
to me is more that's what we should be
writing about. Like that's an
interesting idea to me is that you have
these huge highv valuation companies,
but you also have all these open source
models like the the weights are just out
there in the public domain that can do
98% of what people care about and you're
beginning to get lowcost competitive
services where people can just spin
those up and cheaper data centers.
That's interesting to me. That's an
economic story. AI creating its own
church is not as not as relevant to me.
I'm already working on a story for f
this Friday in fact on my premium
newsletter about the fact that actually
the margins of serving GPU compute are
dog [__] like the best of the best of
like a collocation place like applied
digital is like 27% gross margins and
that's at 100% utilization Anything
below 7, they're burning cash. I I hear
there's a data center out in North
Dakota losing a million dollars a day.
That's the thing. This is even with
these low these lower cost models on
device could be interesting.
>> That's what's going to happen. I think I
think on device is what's going to
happen.
>> I just remembered something. This is a
classic [__] story that I see every
so often. So, have you read any of the
stories that are like, "Yeah, Claude can
now work for hours uninterrupted." Have
you read about these? You heard this?
You seen this? work for hour. Oh, yeah.
>> Yeah, they're talking about the Yeah,
the multi-step agentic execution. It
keeps coming back. Yeah.
>> Yeah. AI on the CNBC. AI on the verge of
8 hour job shift without burnout or
break. Is it is 24hour AI workday next
going to just censor myself what I was
going to say there because it's just
like yeah it can work for for hours. Is
the output good? Does it
>> problem? Yeah, it's just a loop. Just
keep reading. Call it, recall it, recall
it. Like I can I can write a Python
program that calls an hour for 24 hours.
>> If you need me to burn something for
hours on end, I just give me some
gasoline. I got you, baby. I can sort
this right out. Be much cheaper. But
it's like, yeah, by September 2025,
Claude Sonnet 4.5 is reported to run
autonomously for up to 30 hours.
Reported with comp. I mean, but that's
more vibe reporting. It's you're meant
to read that and go, "Wow, this thing is
performing tasks that are useful, that
execute code, that do something." And in
that 30 hours, that is equivalent to 30
human working hours versus they sat
there and pissed their pants for like
29.5 of those at least.
>> Well, and and also that's those are like
specialized tasks typically that um have
clear milestones in testing. So it's
like it can do something the loop can
try and try until it passes the test and
then you know that's done and then you
can move on to the next step and then
you can keep calling the LM and
executing until it passes the next test
and you can move on and in theory like
it's
>> yeah they're avoiding error cascade
because it's testable and they can keep
retrying or something like that. I mean,
this was like the me meter had this
problem with their their graph of how
long of tasks AI can now do. And it was
like this sort of like super arbitrary
decision of like, oh, here's a task that
takes a human 5 hours. Now AI can do
that. Here's a task where it's really
more about like how many things in a row
can you do without the errors cascading
out of control or something like that.
The thing is it's different. Yeah.
>> You're being way nicer than you should
be in my opinion just because they don't
even explain. They don't even say like,
"Yeah, and we managed to make it do it."
And this they just go first for eight
hours. CNBC just [__] woo just
tearing their shirts off and screaming.
>> It go but it goes back to the two things
you need we need in this reporting. You
need technical uh the details of the
relevant technical innovation and a
discussion of concrete implications near
future implications of that
breakthrough. That's what I'm always
looking for. So like if you want to
cover a story like that like well what
does that mean? What is the technical
breakthrough right? What does this mean
technically? You can do 30 hours of work
or eight hours. What is the work? What
was changed? What did they figure? What
was happening before? What technical
breakthrough made this possible now? And
then what are the concrete implications?
What specific things now can we direct
this will now allow us to do? What tell
us what jobs are going away? Tell us
what tool we're going to see. Like you
have to but we avoid that, right?
Because then you're putting you're
putting your chips down
>> and then those things don't come along.
And so I'm always looking for that.
What's the technical innovation and what
are the concrete implications? If you
don't have that, you're mining emotions.
>> You and you're mining emotions or just
helping boost stock. That's what really
bothers me because I hate that they're
scaring people. I really really hate
that they're doing marketing. Like
they're just doing
like I run a PR firm. I've dealt with
early stage startups for like 15 years.
There isn't a single early stage startup
that would get a percentage point of
this [__] Like you you email a
reporter about like a series A stop.
They're like, "All right,
>> all right, [__]
>> How much revenue? Are they profitable
yet? Why not? Why not? Explain to me
right now." Anthropic's like, "Ah, we're
going we're going to burn 100 billion on
training, I guess. What do you think?"
>> And they're like, "Yeah, I love it. I
actually think that's future."
>> That's great. I'm not And to be clear, I
think that this scrutiny should be from
the beginning to the end. I think that
everyone should face this scrutiny. Like
that's I'm not saying that I should get
an easier. I'm saying actually everyone
should anthropic should face the most
brutal scrutiny. And I guess that they
don't because they want access. It's
just very dull and annoying and it's
just helping already rich guys like
Wario Amade who should not have more
money. Listen to him speak. He needs he
needs to face some stress.
I think some stress would help him grow.
But Cal as we wrap up, I did actually
have like a technical thing that I want
an idea of being percolating. So I think
that this term training with models is
being misused and used in a way that is
kind of vibe reporting style, which is
they use training as a word that
suggests that it will stop that they
will stop training these models. But
from correct me if I'm wrong, training
is everything from building a new model
to updating a model's current
parameters. Correct. Yeah, there's
pre-training and post-training is the
right way to think about it. So the
pre-training is unsupervised. That's
where you take all the text that's ever
been written and you will take a real
piece of text written by a human and
you'll cut it off at an arbitrary point
and you'll tell the language model
>> you're guess the word that came next.
There's a real word that came next. This
is real writing. Guess the word that
came next and then it guesses and then
you you adjust the weight so it gets
closer to the right answer. That's
pre-training.
>> When you adjust the weights, what are
you doing? uh you're adjust it's so
you're running a a training algorithm
called back propagation. This is a Jeff
Hinton, you know, innovation where
you're you're going through and you're
adjusting the weights all the way
through the layers in such a way that
the answer it gives for this particular
test gets a little bit closer to the
right answer because you know the right
answer
>> and that's pre-training.
>> That's pre-trained. It's unsupervised.
So you take Hamlet or you take Dickens
like the best of times it was the worst
of and then you give that to the thing
what word should come next and you know
it says bacon like we're going to adjust
these weights now in a way that like
your answer gets a little bit closer
towards times right okay that's
pre-training then you get post- training
where you already have trained so you
have this network all the weights have
been set through this massive multimonth
you know billion dollar uh pre-training
and now you want to go through and you
want to tweak this to avoid certain
types of behaviors or to influence
towards certain types of behavior. So
for post training, um it's almost always
based off of you have uh inputs like
prompts and correct answers. This is the
right way to respond to this question,
right? So you've you've you have pairs
of questions and answers.
>> You give the prompt to the LLM, it spits
out some answer. And now what you're
doing, you're using it's called
reinforcement learning as a general
technology, but you're using techniques
from reinforcement learning to sort of
like zap it like you would zap a dog
when you're dog training it to to um if
it's a bad answer, you zap it. So you
get those weights away from that answer
and if it's a good answer, you give it a
treat like okay,
>> this is this is post training.
>> This is post training. And so that's
where uh you've moved past the the the
word guessing game, which is where all
of the sort of general smarts comes from
these models. And now you're you're
you're uh doing the sort of zapping and
treat training around very specific
things, right? So this is where
>> do that keep going. Sorry.
>> Yeah. So like so um you'll go through
and like ask it questions where the
answers might be like about building
bombs or whatever. And every time it
spits out an answer about a bomb, you
give it like a really bad negative shock
and you're like definitely turn off
those circuits. Like we don't want you
to spit out answers by bombs. Like this
where all the guard rails come from. Um
or if you wanted to get better at doing
like a particular math exam, you can
give it like lots of questions from that
math exam and then you have the right
answer and you can kind of zap it to
move it towards what the answers look
like on this math exam. So, so post-
training is more focused. You have
particular types of behavior you're
trying to sort of instill in this
already pre-trained massive network. Um
that's mainly where the focus turned
after GPT4. So GPT4 was like the extent
of pre-training making it smarter. After
GPT4 trying to make those models even
bigger and pre-trained them longer
didn't lead to much performance
increases. So everything we got between
four in the leadup to five was
post-training. And that's when they
began focusing on metrics. But if I have
a particular metric, I can post-train a
model to do well on that test. And so
everything became about metrics and post
like now we can do this thing better or
look at this thing we do better. And so
that's kind of the game that's played
now is we do lots of post training that
requires like much more specific data
because you need like right answers,
pairs of prompts and correct answers.
>> So only certain things we can do this
with. Um but that's the game we've been
playing since like 20.
>> Do they do that with models that exist
now? So they're con this is basically
updates, right?
>> Yeah, they do it on a a semi-regular
basis. Yeah, but they usually there'll
be a name change like GPT52 is different
than 5.1 different than five.
>> But don't they update the current
models?
>> Uh they don't reper them.
>> That's too expensive.
>> But they No, no, they would. I'm not
saying that. I'm saying do they postrain
the current models to make them better
at stuff to tweak things.
>> Yeah. So that's this is a very long way
to get to a point I'm kind of making
which is one of the problems with vibe
reporting on this is training is framed
as this thing like inference is framed
as opex that is permanent that you
cannot avoid inference being creating
the outputs. Training is framed as this
R&D mysticism which is just out there
and you know like training they never
say this but you hear training you think
oh you train and then you perform and so
training would end but from what I
understand training is as common and
necessary an expense as inference at
this point. Yeah, it's the only way you
improve or update things, right? Like,
so if you had a Microsoft 365 software,
you're constantly sending updates and
patches and whatever as you like add new
features or whatever. In the AI model
world, it's it's yeah, it's post more
rounds of post training. It's the only
way to make any sort of uh improvement
or fixing bugs. Like you're like, oh,
here's something it's saying that we're
really upset about. Okay, let's go in
and do some zapping. Let's get out the
zapper, give it a bunch of examples of
saying that bad thing, and let's zap and
say, don't do that. and now it's like
very unlikely to do that. Uh so yeah,
they're constantly they're constantly
doing that. Otherwise, you're a stasis.
Um which is different than the way most
people actually think of it differently.
They think that the model is somehow
like learning online.
>> That like as you talk absolutely not
it's just absolutely not true. That as
you talk to it, it's learning and it's
getting uh it's getting better and
they're like but wait a second it
remembered something I talked about
earlier. It must be getting smarter.
They the model doesn't care about you
just your local software. You don't
realize this. It's including like huge
bits of stuff you've talked to it before
in the prompt that's going to the model.
It's like here's a bunch of stuff that
Ed has submitted to you in the past.
Okay, now here's his current question.
So it's the model hasn't changed. The
model doesn't have memory. It can't
adjust it. It doesn't adjust its memory
in real time. Um it's all static. There
is no dynamic memory involved in these
models. The the the they're fixed until
you go out and post train it and then
you bring the new weights back in the
data center and that's the thing doing
inference.
But that's the thing like this. The
reason I bring it up as the kind of
closing vibe story is because training
is very clearly getting more expensive.
What they say profitable and inference
which again doesn't really make sense to
me. But putting that aside, they're not.
But even if they were, if training never
stops, then who cares about profitable
in inference? Like it just means that
you will get more expensive forever.
Inference is just Yeah. Inference is P.
Poo training is poo.
That's I'm not putting that one in an
article.
>> Yeah. Okay. It's an interesting
question, right? Because it's also
getting like the was it Alman who was
making those comments about well if if
we just didn't have to pay for the
training. This would be profitable.
>> If I didn't have all these expenses, I'd
be so profitable.
>> The the one distinction that's maybe
relevant there, not to be an apologist,
but the one one distinction that is
relevant is pre-training versus post. So
pre-training is insanely expensive,
right? Because you're you're training
something on
>> all the all the words in the world and
it takes months. So it's it's just like
you're running a data center that's
going to have nowadays up to sixdigit
GPUs uh running full-time for months
just to get that pre-training done. And
you have to pay for all of that, right?
So that's all
>> time. You're not getting money. You're
just paying for training. Post-raining
is also expensive. It's not that
expensive though because um as expensive
as pre-training because each post-
trainining session it's a way way way
smaller data set that you're postrain it
on. It's like all right we we generated
like 10,000 examples of people you know
responding to questions in a racist way
and those 10,000 examples we'll use to
reinforcement learn and try to move it
away from answering those type of
questions in a racist way. That's like
not that big of a a data set compared to
we're going to train this on every word
written that we have access to. So the
post training is not as expensive as
pre-training
>> unless you're doing it all the time.
>> Yeah, that's true.
>> Like that's the thing. If if you're
doing it all the time and it takes
months of pre-training but you're
constantly doing something like post
training for months.
>> Yeah. I mean post not functionally the
same thing.
>> It's the same thing. I think this is a
fair point. When you when you have a
particular example that you're post
training on like one prompt with an
answer, it's kind of like you're doing
inference in reverse, right? So you're
going from
>> you're back propagating from one side of
the network to the beginning as opposed
to going from the beginning to the end.
Now it's more expensive than that
because when you're just doing inference
the fundamental operation is is um basic
multiplication. You're just multiplying
numbers in a big table.
>> Back propagation which you use to
training you're it is multiplication
when you do a bunch of uh it's a bunch
of derivatives because you're constantly
you need to calculate like the
derivative of these. I mean like it
doesn't really matter but you kind of
need that you want the derivative
because you want the the gradient
descent to be towards like better and
away from worse and derivatives
>> I my understanding is this is like more
expensive operations per weight that
you're trying to change because you're
you're not just multiplying a number
you're having to calculate derivatives
and becomes a little bit more
complicated. So yeah it's like inference
in reverse but also like a little bit
more expensive. So if you you have
10,000
sample question responses you're going
to use to post train, it's kind of like
10,000 users sent prompts and they're
particularly expensive prompts and you
had to pay for that instead of like them
paying for it. So yeah, it's it's good
to think of it as like
>> inference in reverse.
>> It's also an ongoing cost like it's
>> everyone is leaning on this idea that
this stuff will magically become
profitable. I don't know if you've seen
the cash flow diagrams of Anthropic and
OpenAI, but there's a mysterious math
going on where year 2028, 2029, they
just become profitable.
>> Wait, I was going to ask you about this.
Uh, last month there's this announcement
that OpenAI had some massive increase in
revenue.
>> Yeah. Well, this is actually a great
vibe reporting thing and that's
annualized revenue. They said they hit
20 mill billion in annualized revenue,
which would mean 1.67 67 billion in a
month. Now, important details. We don't
know how they're defining a month. We
don't know if they mean 28 days, 29
days, 30 days. We don't know if they
mean a calendar month, so the month of
November or December, or do they just
mean any 30 days. We don't know if
they're doing insane math, which happens
very rarely, but this company feels like
one that might do it. Just my gut
instinct, is they may be doing here's a
7-day period and we're going to turn it
into a month. Like they we don't know
how they're doing this. And they also
coupled this by saying that as compute
grows, revenue grows. I don't know if
you've seen this.
>> No, this is their formula. Yeah. Okay.
>> Yeah. It's an insane formula that does
not map to any economics. Like it's just
it's the kind of thing that if we had a
functioning business and tech press that
would just be scrutinized to the bone
that would just be ripped apart and say
what the [__] does that mean? Cuz if
this were true if you simply add more
gigawatt add more revenue.
>> Yeah.
>> Then you would simply print more money.
Like it would be a money print of
>> like my movie theater did well.
Therefore if I build a 100,000 movie
theaters we're going to make 100,000
more you know times the amount of money.
And it's like, well, wait, that theater
was in Manhattan and it was like really
wellrun and there
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
well, okay. I I assume I assumed as
much. Um, trying to understand that
story. Okay. Yeah. The annualized
revenue stuff. I think I even used that
term talking to someone. I credit you. I
was like Ed Zetron would say look out
for annualized revenue.
>> It is the funny thing is with that as
well is it's more vibe reporting because
ARR standard. It's very standard in SAS
companies that sell on a per seat basis.
So a salesforce would do AI well even
they are doing annualized now with their
AI revenue but it would be a software
company has a 100 seats they sell to a
company and they charge 15 bucks a bit
uh a p a seat per month and they charge
that annually and the actual cost of
each user is fairly measurable because
they're doing CPU based stuff like it
gets expensive at scale because there's
a lot of people but it doesn't get
multiple multi I can't say the word it
doesn't get much more expensive as you
Pro with AI, it's actually because of
the way large language models work, your
most excited customers are your most
expensive.
>> Yeah. Because they blow past whatever
whatever their monthly revenue is,
whatever their cost is, they blow past
it.
>> So, you can't even do a per seat
revenue. It's just every all of these
things when I say them out loud, I'm
like, I feel like this should be more
obvious. It's why I loved your video cuz
it was like, thank you, someone else.
>> Well, here's the question. Here's my
here's my here's like the dangerous
question. I actually put out a video
last week that was like dangerous
question. Um,
>> we're now on year
three or four
>> of new like the I'm counting new year
starting like new year 2023 or whatever.
Uh, of people saying, "Oh my god, this
is so cool. These massive disruptions
that are going to change everything is
imminent." And year after year we've
said that. I'm not yet seeing the
massive disruptions.
Like not the not the stories of what
might be disrupted or the stories of
what's different, but like how many
years do we have to go without
industries crumbling or major new
economic players that didn't exist
before or complete restructuring of huge
companies around this technology? How
many years we have to go? So I I did a I
did a a video where I went I found the
Reddit thread where someone just asked
this question. This was from like
earlier in the month. They were like
outside of the vibe coding stuff um what
what are the like what are people what
are the big tools that have come like
what are the big things that have come
out of this technology that are changing
things and I read through this whole
thread and it was interesting there's
not people don't have much like well you
know like it could these are like really
small case studies I used it to help you
know gather clean up data that I got
from whatever I was like this is like
such a nerdy specific use case and and
so I went through that thread in a video
and this has kind of been my question is
like it is very cool technology but how
do we know where this is going to fall?
Uh like to me the scale is would go like
this uh like blockchain software
then Oculus VR then maybe um internet
then electricity right so if we're going
to have a scale of disruption right
blockchain software is something where
uh the premise made no sense and it was
never going to get off the ground and
there was going to be like no impact on
the world and you know because I'm a my
training in CS is in distributed system
theory I was there in 2020 saying guys
let me just tell you this is nonsense
No, web 3 is not about to take off. None
of this makes sense. And that was true.
That did nothing. Then you have like
Oculus VR. It really is cool, right? You
put on these things like that is
awesome. Like I love this technology,
but it's having a hard time having a
real major impact because people aren't
sure what to do with it.
>> Also, most people don't necessarily have
a great experience initially because
it's extremely dependent on where you
are, who you are, the size of your
skull, that kind of big head. for a
limited group of people, it's really
cool, but it it it fails to come out.
Then the internet is like really
disruptive, changed a lot of things.
More it's not so much as like whole
industries disappeared or whatever, but
it like changed the way a lot of
industries actually function. And then
like electricity, you could say like it
just completely changed what day-to-day
existence of business was like.
>> Yeah. How existence of
>> Exactly. Yeah. And so then the big
question like everyone should be asking
is where is Gener AI going to fall on
this? And you know, I would say right
now this is what gets me yelled at. I'm
not saying this is the prediction
necessarily going forward, but right now
I don't think it's got past much farther
past the uh the Oculus part of that
scale
>> where it's really cool. There's very
cool things. Chat GPT is very cool. It's
very cool that it can like have that
comprehension and no one thought it
could do that,
>> but we haven't yet figured out what to
do with it.
comprehension.
It's no it's a
>> text I mean we take it for granted but
for CS people the ability that like I
can add hey give me text that like
whatever in the style of a poem that
does whatever uh and that includes a
character from Star Wars and then it can
give you text that does that that
comprehension like for a computer
scientist was like oh we didn't really
know how to consistently
>> on a technical level yeah
>> yeah that's like very cool yeah but we
haven't got past
>> this is like the the surprising thing of
this field is we're not really past the
ocul stage yet like where there's like
for certain this is vibe coding is
really cool the comprehension is cool so
like Sora is weird but like it's cool
you can do that
>> but the markets are not
>> none of these have markets yet right
like there's not big markets in any of
these yet and will how far will it go
from Oculus to the internet to me that
is like the number one question the
number two question the number three
question of all reporting on this and
almost no one's talking about that it's
just hype laundering uh we'll take this
hype we'll extrapolate it will react to
that extrapolation. That's kind of what
reporting is right now in AI. Whereas to
me, this is the hugest question. If this
ends up Oculus, retail investors are
going to get screwed. If it ends up
internet,
>> all right, that's like that's like a
really interesting significant story. If
it ends up electricity, obviously that
really matters, but like I I don't know
anyone who actually thinks it's going to
be that disruptive. Not the current
technology. That's the story to me. not
let's like extrapolate a you know hey
what these things are creating a church
or let's let's let's hype launder
extrapolate that and react to our
extrapolation that's not really
reporting so much as speculative fiction
writing I guess I don't know quite what
to call it but this is the real question
where exactly are we now and what are
the possibilities of like where this is
going to go positive and negative I
don't we have enough talk on that
>> I fully agree Cal it's been such a
pleasure having you thank you for
joining me
>> always happy talk shop. Always happy to
hate with you. I guess
>> hater season. I like it.
>> Hater season's the best. We will be back
this week with either a monologue or an
interview. I have not decided because
I've got a wonderful Cory Quinn
interview I just did. So, I'm
considering putting that in the
monologue. You'll find out on Friday.
Anyway, this has been better offline.
I'm at Zitron. Subscribe to the premium.
Download a t-shirt. Whatever you desire.
Thank you for listening to Better
Offline. The editor and composer of the
Better Offline theme song is Matosowski.
You can check out more of his music and
audio projects at matasowski.com.
matos
wski.com.
You can email me at easy@betoffline.com
or visit betteroffline.com to find more
podcast links and of course my
newsletter. I also really recommend you
go to chat.wesyoued.app
to visit the Discord and go to r/ better
offline to check out our Reddit. Thank
you so much for listening. Better
offline is a production of coolzone
media. For more from coolzone media,
visit our website coolzone media.com or
check us out on the iHeart Radio app,
Apple Podcast or wherever you get your
podcasts.
Heat. Heat.